---
title: More Ormegarten Elevator rooms
date: 2023-04-02T19:33:39.233Z
author: "Alexander Anotherskip Davis "
tags:
  - post
  - storeroom
  - ormegarten
  - elevator
  - dungeon
  - treasure
  - statues
  - geodes
  - troupe
summary: An Elevated Storage room
image: /site/img/map-dragons-throat.jpg
---
STORE ROOM: This room holds things someone found interesting and has built this collection of the following items from those he has faced against. Holding open the door are 3 bags with 200 Lions inside, perhaps bribes. A matched pair of Wolfhide cloaks complete with their heads worth 200 GPV each are hung upon pegs beside the door, which can be used by a Madar or Medusa to travel in some comfort and as disguises.  Stone carver tools: these fine carving tools will easily bring in 100 GPV for the complete set, they may be used of course, but they are composed of a finely crafted belt with sheaths holding two kinds of hammers, an empty sheath for the rockhammer, 8 sizes of diamond tipped chisels and a pouch that has several strips of cloth with various grades of sand plus vials with varied grades of sand in them as well as a bottle of weak yet flexible glue for sealing sand to the cloths.  10 Centipedes, giant: if the characters arrange them in an artistic fashion on a display board in an interesting pattern they could command up to 500 Gold lions value otherwise they will only bring in 10 Gold each. A litter of 6 piglets that is intact and are worth 200 gold for the set, 15 gold apiece if they are sold separately. There appears to have been some efforts at coloring the stone to increase their value.  He has two tuns of wine (worth 100 GP each) one on top of the other at a little cloth covered crate (it has bolts of cloth, all told this 600 Cn weight of cloth in the crate is worth 1000 Lions total) acting as a table set for two with a pair of goblets, chairs and plates as if it is ready for a fine dining experience.  A second crate with likely 50 Geodes (52 exactly, but two if not handled carefully will shatter), which though not Gems they are interesting and each can command 100 Gold though only if taken to the Capital. The Players may be able to go for halfers with a merchant, but if they go with a merchant they have rescued they will only demand 10-25% (1d4x5% +5%) for a profit. There are also 8 statues which are obviously a very creepy troupe of entertainers (three maniacally looking jesters, a dangerous appearing sword swallower, two deranged looking dwarves doing something with a large ball, a masked woman of some sort and a knife thrower) arranged like servants around the table for two. Should the players free one or two they will try to cunningly free the rest or find out how the de stoning occurs while keeping their evil natures secret until they think they have the upper hand against their rescuers. Note that if desired these could be a troupe mentioned in adventure hooks for outside the Ormegarten area or friends with the stoned female dwarf. At the Dm's option they may not be truly evil merely suffering the after effects of overindulgence or perhaps practicing a tragedy.  Stats for the odd troupe and the names they will give: three jesters, Dervin, Lindor and Kervin (AC 6 \\[leathers and dex], T 2, hp 5 each, #AT 1, D 1-4, MV (60'), ML 8) sword swallower Steffan (AC 4 \\[concealed partial armor plates to make him tougher and look bulkier], F 1, hp 4, #AT 1 or 1/2 for crossbows, D 1-6, MV (40'), ML 9), two dwarves Mani and Bel (AC 7, F 1, hp 6, #AT 1 or 1/2 for crossbows, D 1-6 (+1 for strength), Save as Fighter 3, MV (40'), ML 12), a masked woman called Seline (AC 8 \\[dex] M2, hp 4, #AT 1 D 1-4, MV (120'), ML 8) and a knife thrower Tom Barker (AC 7, F 2, hp 7, #AT 2 with daggers, D 1-3, MV (90'), ML 10)